python/README.md, before:

# Agent Development Kit (ADK) Python Samples

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

<img src="https://github.com/google/adk-docs/blob/main/docs/assets/agent-development-kit.png" alt="Agent Development Kit Logo" width="150">

This collection provides ready-to-use sample agents built on top of Python
[Agent Development Kit](https://github.com/google/adk-python). These agents
cover a range of common use cases and complexities, from simple conversational
bots to complex multi-agent workflows.

## 🚀 Getting Started with Python Samples

Follow these steps to set up and run the sample agents:

1.  **Prerequisites:**
    *   **Install Python ADK:** Ensure you have Python Agent
        Development Kit installed and configured. Follow the Python instructions in the
        [ADK Installation Guide](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/get-started/installation/#python).
    *   **Set Up Environment Variables:** Each agent example relies on a `.env`
        file for configuration (like API keys, Google Cloud project IDs, and
        location). This keeps secrets out of the code.
        *   You will need to create a `.env` file in each agent's directory you
            wish to run (usually by copying the provided `.env.example`).
        *   Setting up these variables, especially obtaining Google Cloud
            credentials, requires careful steps. Refer to the **Environment
            Setup** section in the [ADK Installation
            Guide](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/get-started/installation/#python)
            for detailed instructions.
    *   **Google Cloud Project (Recommended):** While some agents might run
        locally with just an API key, most leverage Google Cloud services like
        Vertex AI and BigQuery. A configured Google Cloud project is highly
        recommended. See the
        [ADK Quickstart](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/get-started/quickstart/#python)
        for setup details.


2.  **Clone this repository:**

    To start working with the ADK Python samples, first clone the public `adk-samples` repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/google/adk-samples.git
    cd adk-samples/python
    ```

3.  **Explore the Agents:**

    *   Navigate to the `agents/` directory.
    *   The `agents/README.md` provides an overview and categorization of the available agents.
    *   Browse the subdirectories. Each contains a specific sample agent with its own
    `README.md`.

4.  **Run an Agent:**
    *   Choose an agent from the `agents/` directory.
    *   Navigate into that agent's specific directory (e.g., `cd agents/llm-auditor`).
    *   Follow the instructions in *that agent's* `README.md` file for specific
        setup (like installing dependencies via `poetry install`) and running
        the agent.
    *   Browse the folders in this repository. Each agent and tool have its own
        `README.md` file with detailed instructions.

**Notes:**

These agents have been built and tested using
[Google models](https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/learn/models)
on Vertex AI. You can test these samples with other models as well. Please refer
to [ADK Tutorials](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/tutorials/) to use
other models for these samples.

## 🧱 Repository Structure
```bash
.
├── python                      # Contains all the Python sample code
│   ├── agents                  # Contains individual agent samples
│   │   ├── agent1              # Specific agent directory
│   │   │   └── README.md       # Agent-specific instructions
│   │   ├── agent2
│   │   │   └── README.md
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── README.md           # Overview and categorization of agents
│   └── README.md               # This file (Repository overview)
```

## ℹ️ Getting help

If you have any questions or if you found any problems with this repository,
please report through
[GitHub issues](https://github.com/google/adk-samples/issues).

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! Whether it's bug reports, feature
requests, documentation improvements, or code contributions, please see our
[**Contributing Guidelines**](https://github.com/google/adk-samples/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
to get started.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License - see the
[LICENSE](https://github.com/google/adk-samples/blob/main/LICENSE) file for
details.

## Disclaimers

This is not an officially supported Google product. This project is not eligible
for the
[Google Open Source Software Vulnerability Rewards Program](https://bughunters.google.com/open-source-security).

The agents in this project are intended for demonstration purposes only. They is
not intended for use in a production environment.

Commit message:

Added black, isort, and flake8 to the PR process. Also added a script to manually and locally run them

python/README.md, after:

# Agent Development Kit (ADK) Python Samples

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

<img src="https://github.com/google/adk-docs/blob/main/docs/assets/agent-development-kit.png" alt="Agent Development Kit Logo" width="150">

This collection provides ready-to-use sample agents built on top of Python
[Agent Development Kit](https://github.com/google/adk-python). These agents
cover a range of common use cases and complexities, from simple conversational
bots to complex multi-agent workflows.

## 🚀 Getting Started with Python Samples

Follow these steps to set up and run the sample agents:

1.  **Prerequisites:**
    *   **Install Python ADK:** Ensure you have Python Agent
        Development Kit installed and configured. Follow the Python instructions in the
        [ADK Installation Guide](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/get-started/installation/#python).
    *   **Set Up Environment Variables:** Each agent example relies on a `.env`
        file for configuration (like API keys, Google Cloud project IDs, and
        location). This keeps secrets out of the code.
        *   You will need to create a `.env` file in each agent's directory you
            wish to run (usually by copying the provided `.env.example`).
        *   Setting up these variables, especially obtaining Google Cloud
            credentials, requires careful steps. Refer to the **Environment
            Setup** section in the [ADK Installation
            Guide](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/get-started/installation/#python)
            for detailed instructions.
    *   **Google Cloud Project (Recommended):** While some agents might run
        locally with just an API key, most leverage Google Cloud services like
        Vertex AI and BigQuery. A configured Google Cloud project is highly
        recommended. See the
        [ADK Quickstart](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/get-started/quickstart/#python)
        for setup details.


2.  **Clone this repository:**

    To start working with the ADK Python samples, first clone the public `adk-samples` repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/google/adk-samples.git
    cd adk-samples/python
    ```

3.  **Explore the Agents:**

    *   Navigate to the `agents/` directory.
    *   The `agents/README.md` provides an overview and categorization of the available agents.
    *   Browse the subdirectories. Each contains a specific sample agent with its own
    `README.md`.

4.  **Run an Agent:**
    *   Choose an agent from the `agents/` directory.
    *   Navigate into that agent's specific directory (e.g., `cd agents/llm-auditor`).
    *   Follow the instructions in *that agent's* `README.md` file for specific
        setup (like installing dependencies via `poetry install`) and running
        the agent.
    *   Browse the folders in this repository. Each agent and tool have its own
        `README.md` file with detailed instructions.

**Notes:**

These agents have been built and tested using
[Google models](https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/learn/models)
on Vertex AI. You can test these samples with other models as well. Please refer
to [ADK Tutorials](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/tutorials/) to use
other models for these samples.

## 🧱 Repository Structure
```bash
.
├── python                      # Contains all the Python sample code
│   ├── agents                  # Contains individual agent samples
│   │   ├── agent1              # Specific agent directory
│   │   │   └── README.md       # Agent-specific instructions
│   │   ├── agent2
│   │   │   └── README.md
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── README.md           # Overview and categorization of agents
│   └── README.md               # This file (Repository overview)
```

## 📝 Code Quality Checks

We use automated checks to ensure high quality and consistency across all code samples.

### 🐍 Python Contributor Pre-Check

Before submitting a Pull Request with changes to Python files (in `python/agents` or `python/notebooks`), please run the following script locally to catch any formatting or linting errors:

1. Ensure you have Python installed.
2. Run the check script from the repository root:

```bash
./python-checks.sh --run # run all checks
./python-checks.sh --run all # run all checks
./python-checks.sh --run black # run black only
./python-checks.sh --run isort flake8 # run isort and flake8
./python-checks.sh --help # for more info
```

This script will run `black`, `isort` and `flake8` to check for formatting and linting errors.

## ℹ️ Getting help

If you have any questions or if you found any problems with this repository,
please report through
[GitHub issues](https://github.com/google/adk-samples/issues).

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! Whether it's bug reports, feature
requests, documentation improvements, or code contributions, please see our
[**Contributing Guidelines**](https://github.com/google/adk-samples/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
to get started.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License - see the
[LICENSE](https://github.com/google/adk-samples/blob/main/LICENSE) file for
details.

## Disclaimers

This is not an officially supported Google product. This project is not eligible
for the
[Google Open Source Software Vulnerability Rewards Program](https://bughunters.google.com/open-source-security).

The agents in this project are intended for demonstration purposes only. They is
not intended for use in a production environment.
